                                                                                                   
                                                                                                    ELECTION RULES & REGULATIONS
                                                                                                   

  INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
  Authority

    1. This regulation is made pursuant to the Election Law.
	
    2. Unless specifically provided otherwise in these regulations, the terms used have the same meaning as defined in the Election Law. 
       "PIN" means a personal identification number; and "system" means an electronically accessible platform upon which electronic voting 
       will be conducted.

  Rules for Electronic Voting
  
    3. The elections officer, with the assistance of elections officials, may make written rules regarding the following:
    
	a) How an eligible voter may vote by electronic voting;

	b) The administration of electronic voting, and

	c) The counting and tallying of votes cast by electronic voting Electronic System

    
    4. The elections officer, with assistance of an identified elections official , as required, is responsible for:

	a) Establishing the technology, including software, for electronic voting; and

	b) Administering, maintaining, monitoring and performing the audits of the system.


    5. For certainty, for the purposes of carrying out the duties under section 4, the elections officer or designated elections official 
       must have direct access to the electronic voting system beyond the access necessary to vote by electronic voting.


    6. When an eligible voter wishes to vote using electronic voting, the system must:

	a) Request the PIN issued to the eligible voter and at least one other piece of information unique to the eligible voter so that the 
	   eligible voter can be reliably identified as an eligible voter and the individual that they claim to be;
	
	b) Verify on the voters list whether or not the eligible voter has already voted;
	
	c) If an individual is an eligible voter and has not already voted in that election, issue an electronic ballot to the efigible voter 
	   in a manner that ensures the secrecy of the ballot and protects the secrecy of the eligible voter's vote;
	
	d) Provide to the eligible voter, in the form approved by the elections officer, instructions for marking the electronic ballot;
	
	e) Permit the eligible voter to mark the electronic ballot and record it in the electronic ballot box; and
	
	f) Indicate on the voters list that the eligible voter has voted as soon as the electronic ballot is recorded in the electronic ballot box.
       Individuals needing assistance to mark their electronic ballot


	7.	Where an eligible voter is unable to vote by electronic voting because of a physical disability, the eligible voter may enlist the 
	    assistance of another individual to enter the eligible voter's PIN, mark the eligible voter's electronic ballot and record it in the electronic 
	    ballot box.
	    
  Replacement PIN
    8. If an eligible voter did not receive a PIN, has lost his or her PIN or the PIN does not work, the elections officer may issue or instruct an 
       elections official to issue a new PIN to the eligible voter to allow him or her to vote only if:
	
	a) The elections officer is satisfied that the individual is an eligible voter and has not already voted in that elections; and
	
	b) If applicable, the elections officer or an elections official has cancelled the original PIN assigned to that voter such that the original PIN cannot 
	   be used for electronic voting.
    
    9. The elections officer must maintain a record of the original and any replacement PIN assigned to each eligible voter until the end of the retention period 
       described in section 68 of the Law.

  Suspension of Electronic Voting
   10. Electronic voting may be suspended by the elections officer if the elections officer considers that:
	
	a) The health and safety of persons is at risk; or
	
	b) The integrity of the voting is at risk.
   
   11. Voting may be suspended under section 10:
	a) To a later time on the same day; or
	
	b) To a day and time to be set by the elections officer.
   
   12. While voting is suspended under section 10, the elections officer and elections officials must make all reasonable efforts to ensure:
	a) The electronic ballot box, the electronic ballots and other materials are secured.
	
	b) The integrity of the election is not compromised.
   
   13. Elections officials must give notice to persons affected by any suspension of voting under this section as directed by the elections 
       officer or, in the absence of such direction, in any manner the elections officials consider necessary or advisable in the circumstances.

	    
	    
                                                                                                                  ~ Thank You ~
       